Initial version of the README.md (#389)
dlt-hub/verified-sources: sources/rest_api/README.md

# REST API Generic Source
A declarative way to define dlt sources for REST APIs.

## What is this?
> Happy APIs are all alike
>
>    \- E. T. Lev Tolstoy, Senior Data Engineer

> This is not a standard dlt source, this is a configurable source which will behave differently depending of the config object passed. Most of the REST APIs that we encounter behave in similar way, the REST API Generic Source attempts to provide a declarative way to define a dlt source for those APIs.

Reviewer: I suggest a more assertive tone:
```suggestion
This is a generic source which you can use to create a dlt source from a REST API using a declarative configuration. The majority of the REST APIs behave in a similar way, this dlt source attempts to provide a declarative way to define a dlt source for those APIs.

```

## How to use it

> Probably the easier way is to show you how a source for the Pokemon APIs would look like:

Reviewer: Same here, let's make it assertive:
```suggestion
Let's see how a source for the [Pokemon API](https://pokeapi.co/) would look like:

```

```python
pokemon_config = {
    "client": {
        "base_url": "https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/",
    },
    "resources": [
        "berry",
        "location",
        {
            "name": "pokemon_list",
            "endpoint": "pokemon",
        },
        {
            "name": "pokemon",
            "endpoint": {
                "path": "pokemon/{name}",
                "params": {
                    "name": {
                        "type": "resolve",
                        "resource": "pokemon_list",
                        "field": "name",
                    },
                },
            },
        },
    ],
}

pokemon_source = rest_api_source(pokemon_config)
```
Here a short summary:
- The `client` node contains the base URL of the endpoints that we want to collect.
- The `resources` which correspond to the API endpoints.

> We have a couple of simple resources (`berry` and `location`). The API endpoint is also the name of the dlt resource, and the name of the destination table. They don't need additional configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have a couple of simple resources (`berry` and `location`). For them, the API endpoint is also the name of the dlt resource, and the name of the destination table. They don't need additional configuration.

```

## Anatomy of the config object

> **_TIP:_**  Import `RESTAPIConfig` from the `rest_api` module to have convenient tips.

The config object passed to the REST API Generic Source has three main elements:

```python
my_config: RESTAPIConfig = {
    "client": {
        ...
    },
    "resource_defaults": {
        ...
    },
    "resources": {
        ...
    ,
}
```

`client` contains the configuration to connect to the APIs endpoints (e.g. base URL, authentication method, default behaviour for the paginator, and more).

`resource_defaults` contains the default values to configure the dlt resources returned by this source.

`resources` object contains the configuration for each resource. 

The configuration with smallers scope will overwrite the one with the wider one:

    Resource Configuration > Resource Defaults Configuration > Client Configuration

## Reference

### `client`

#### `auth` [optional]

> Use the auth property to pass a token or a `HTTPBasicAuth` object for more complex authentication methods. Here some practical examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the auth property to pass a token or a `HTTPBasicAuth` object for more complex authentication methods. Here are some practical examples:

```

1. Simple token (read from the `.dlt/secrets.toml` file):
```python
my_api_config: RESTAPIConfig = {
    "client": {
        "base_url": "https://my_api.com/api/v1/",
        "auth": {
            "token": dlt.secrets["sources.my_api.access_token"],
        },
    },
    ...
}
```

2. 
```python
from requests.auth import HTTPBasicAuth

> basic_auth = HTTPBasicAuth(dlt.secrets["sources.my_api.access_token"], "")

Reviewer: I believe the basic auth is user/password: https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/authentication/#basic-authentication

Reviewer 2: Yes, we have this code running because Greenhouse uses only the user and colon and put that base64-encoded into basic auth. no password.

Author: I have replaced the token/nothing, with api_key/api_secret

my_api_config: RESTAPIConfig = {
    "client": {
        "base_url": "https://my_api.com/api/v1/",
        "auth": basic_auth,
    },
    ...
}
```

#### `base_url`
The base URL that will be prepended to the endpoints specified in the `resources` objects. Example

```python
    "base_url": "https://my_api.com/api/v1/",
```

#### `paginator` [optional]
The paginator property specify the default paginator to be used for the endpoint responses.

> //TODO describe paginators, the possible strings, and the disctionary to be used 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: there is still some work to do here

Possible paginators are:
- BasePaginator - 

> - HeaderLinkPaginator - String alias `"header_links"` -

Reviewer: I like the idea of having both classes and string aliases in a same place so it looks like a good place to use a markdown table.

- JSONResponsePaginator -  String alias `"json_links"` - The pagination metainformation are in a node of the JSON response. 

    Usage example for a response with the url of the next page located at `paging.next`:
    ```python
    "paginator": JSONResponsePaginator(
                        next_key=["paging", "next"]
                    )
    ```
- SinglePagePaginator -  String alias `"single_page"` - The response will be interepreted as a single page response, ignoring possible pagination metadata.
- UnspecifiedPaginator - String alias `"auto"` - 

> #### `request_client` [optional]
> This property allows to passa a custom `requests` client.

Reviewer: For the first release we decided to allow to pass only a custom Session object (not the dlt Client).
```suggestion
```

Author: Is this parameter still available or replace by something else (see Willi's comment)?

> This property allows to passa a custom `requests` client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This property allows to pass a custom `Session` object.

```

my_api_config: RESTAPIConfig = {
    "client": {
        "base_url": "https://my_api.com/api/v1/",
        "auth": basic_auth,
    },
    ...
}
```

#### `base_url`
The base URL that will be prepended to the endpoints specified in the `resources` objects. Example

```python
    "base_url": "https://my_api.com/api/v1/",
```

#### `paginator` [optional]
The paginator property specify the default paginator to be used for the endpoint responses.

Possible paginators are:
| Paginator | String Alias | Note |
| --------- | ------------ | ---- |
| BasePaginator | | | 
| HeaderLinkPaginator | `header_links` | | 
| JSONResponsePaginator | `json_links` | The pagination metainformation are in a node of the JSON response (see example below) |
| SinglePagePaginator | `single_page` | The response will be interepreted as a single page response, ignoring possible pagination metadata |
| UnspecifiedPaginator | `auto` | |

  Usage example of the `JSONResponsePaginator`, for a response with the url of the next page located at `paging.next`:
  ```python
  "paginator": JSONResponsePaginator(
                      next_key=["paging", "next"]
                  )
  ```
 

> #### `request_client` [optional]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `session` [optional]

```

#### `endpoint`
A string indicating the endpoint or an `endpoint` object (see [below](#endpoint-1)).

#### `include_from_parent` [optional]
A list of fields, from the parent resource, which will be included in the resource output.

#### `name`
Name of the dlt `resource` and the name of the associated table that will be created.

#### `params`
The query parameters for the endpoint url.

For child resource, you can use values from the parent resource for params. The syntax is the following:

```python
    "PARAM_NAME": {
        "type": "resolve",
        "resource": "PARENT_RESOURCE_NAME",
        "field": "PARENT_RESOURCE_FIELD",
    },
```

An example of use:
```python
    "endpoint": {
        "path": "pokemon/{name}",
        "params": {
            "name": {
                "type": "resolve",
                "resource": "pokemon_list",
                "field": "name",
            },
        },
    },
```

> #### `parent`
> // TODO

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> # REST API Source Generator

Author: good for me :)
